docs(NODE-5560): add v6 upgrade guide [skip-ci] (#3844)
mongodb/node-mongodb-native: etc/notes/CHANGES_6.0.0.md

## About

The following is a detailed collection of the breaking changes in the major v6 release of the `mongodb` package for Node.js.
The main focus of this release was usability improvements and a streamlined API. Read on for details!

## Contents

- [🛠️ Runtime and dependency updates](#%EF%B8%8F-runtime-and-dependency-updates)
  - [Minimum Node.js version is now v16.20.1](#minimum-nodejs-version-is-now-v16201)
  - [BSON version 6.0.0](#bson-version-600)
  - [Optional peer dependency version bumps](#optional-peer-dependency-version-bumps)
  - [Allow `socks` to be installed optionally](#allow-socks-to-be-installed-optionally)
- [☀️ API usability improvements](#%EF%B8%8F-api-usability-improvements)

>   - [`findOneAndX` family of methods will now return only the found document or `null` by default (`includeResultsMetadata` is false by default)](#findoneandx-family-of-methods-will-now-return-only-the-found-document-or-null-by-default-includeresultsmetadata-is-false-by-default)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - [`findOneAndX` family of methods will now return only the found document or `null` by default (`includeResultMetadata` is false by default)](#findoneandx-family-of-methods-will-now-return-only-the-found-document-or-null-by-default-includeresultmetadata-is-false-by-default)
```

  - [Fixed parsing of empty readPreferenceTags in connection string](#fixed-parsing-of-empty-readpreferencetags-in-connection-string)
  - [Corrected `GridFSBucketWriteStream`'s `Writable` method overrides and event emission](#corrected-gridfsbucketwritestreams-writable-method-overrides-and-event-emission)
  - [Fix manually emitted events from `GridFSBucketReadStream`](#fix-manually-emitted-events-from-gridfsbucketreadstream)
  - [`createDataKey` return type fix](#createdatakey-return-type-fix)
- [📜 Removal of deprecated functionality](#-removal-of-deprecated-functionality)
  - [`db.addUser()` and `admin.addUser()` removed](#dbadduser-and-adminadduser-removed)
  - [`collection.stats()` removed](#collectionstats-removed)
  - [`BulkWriteResult` deprecated properties removed](#bulkwriteresult-deprecated-properties-removed)
  - [Deprecated SSL options have been removed](#deprecated-ssl-options-have-been-removed)
  - [The deprecated `keepAlive` and `keepAliveInitialDelay` options have been removed](#the-deprecated-keepalive-and-keepaliveinitialdelay-options-have-been-removed)
- [🪦 Removal of "dead" code](#-removal-of-dead-code)

>   - [`MongoError` and its subclasses now have internal constructors](#mongoerror-and-its-subclasses-now-have-internal-constructors)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - [`MongoError` and its subclasses are no longer covered under semantic versioning](#mongoerror-and-its-subclasses-are-no-longer-covered-under-semantic-versioning)
```

  - [`AutoEncrypter` and `MongoClient.autoEncrypter` are now internal](#autoencrypter-and-mongoclientautoencrypter-are-now-internal)
  - [`ClientEncryption.onKMSProvidersRefresh` function removed](#clientencryptiononkmsprovidersrefresh-function-removed)
  - [`EvalOptions` removed](#evaloptions-removed)
- [⚠️ ALL BREAKING CHANGES](#%EF%B8%8F-all-breaking-changes)

## 🛠️ Runtime and dependency updates

### Minimum Node.js version is now v16.20.1

The minimum supported Node.js version is now v16.20.1. We strive to keep our minimum supported Node.js version in sync with the runtime's [release cadence](https://nodejs.dev/en/about/releases/) to keep up with the latest security updates and modern language features.

### BSON version 6.0.0

This driver version has been updated to use `bson@6.0.0`. BSON functionality re-exported from the driver is subject to the changes outlined in the [BSON V6 release notes](https://github.com/mongodb/js-bson/releases/tag/v6.0.0).

> 

Reviewer 2: Perhaps add an FLE v6 section here, and link to: 
https://github.com/mongodb/libmongocrypt/releases/tag/node-v6.0.0

Author: I don't think so. The only reason bson is its own thing is because it's NOT a peer dependency, so it gets pulled in automatically. FLE is always a manual update.

### Optional peer dependency version bumps

- `kerberos` optional peer dependency minimum version raised to `2.0.1`, dropped support for `1.x`
- `zstd` optional peer depedency minimum version raised to `1.1.0` from `1.0.0`
- `mongodb-client-encryption` optional peer dependency minimum version raised to `6.0.0` from `2.3.0` (note that `mongodb-client-encryption` does not have `3.x-5.x` version releases)

> [!NOTE]
> As of version 6.0.0, all useful public APIs formerly exposed from `mongodb-client-encryption` have been moved into the driver and should now be imported directly from the driver. These APIs rely internally on the functionality exposed from `mongodb-client-encryption`, but there is no longer any need to explicitly reference `mongodb-client-encryption` in your application code.

### Allow `socks` to be installed optionally

The driver uses the `socks` dependency to connect to `mongod` or `mongos` through a [SOCKS5 proxy](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/SOCKS). `socks` used to be a required dependency of the driver and was installed automatically. Now, `socks` is a `peerDependency` that must be installed to enable `socks` proxy support.

## ☀️ API usability improvements

> ### `findOneAndX` family of methods will now return only the found document or `null` by default (`includeResultsMetadata` is false by default)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### `findOneAndX` family of methods will now return only the found document or `null` by default (`includeResultMetadata` is false by default)
```

These options were removed in 4.0.0 but continued to be parsed and silently left unused. We have now added a deprecation warning through Node.js' [warning system](https://nodejs.org/api/process.html#event-warning) and will fully remove these options in the _next_ major release.

### Boolean options only accept 'true' or 'false' in connection strings

Prior to this change, we accepted the values `'1', 'y', 'yes', 't'` as synonyms for `true` and `'-1', '0', 'f', 'n', 'no'` as synonyms for `false`. These have now been removed in an effort to make working with connection string options simpler.

```ts
// Incorrect
const client = new MongoClient('mongodb://localhost:27017?tls=1'); // throws MongoParseError

// Correct
const client = new MongoClient('mongodb://localhost:27017?tls=true');
```

### Repeated options in connection string are no longer allowed

In order to avoid accidental misconfiguration the driver will no longer prioritize the first instance of an option provided on the URI. Instead repeated options that are not permitted to be repeated will throw an error. This is to that connection strings that contain options like `tls=true&tls=false` are no longer ambiguous.

> ### TLS certificate authority and certificate-key files are now read asynchronously
> 
> In order to align with Node.js best practices of keeping I/O async, we have updated the `MongoClient` to store the file names provided to the existing `tlsCAFile` and `tlsCertificateKeyFile` options and only read these files the first time it connects. Prior to this change, the files were read synchronously on `MongoClient` construction.
> 
> > [!NOTE]
> > This has no effect on driver functionality when TLS configuration files are properly specified. However, if there are any issues with the TLS configuration files (invalid file name), the error is now thrown when the `MongoClient` is connected instead of at construction time.
> 
> ```ts
> const client = new MongoClient(CONNECTION_STRING, {
>   tls: true,
>   tlsCAFile: 'caFileName',
>   tlsCertificateKeyFile: 'certKeyFile'
> }); // Files are not read here, but file names are stored on the MongoClient
> 
> await client.connect(); // Files are now read and their contents stored
> await client.close();
> 
> await client.connect(); // Since the file contents have already been cached, the files will not be read again.
> ```
> 
> Take a look at our [TLS documentation](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/drivers/node/current/fundamentals/connection/tls/) for more information on the `tlsCAFile` and `tlsCertificateKeyFile` options.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### TLS certificate authority and certificate-key files are now read asynchronously

In order to align with Node.js best practices of keeping I/O async, we have updated the `MongoClient` to store the file names provided to the existing `tlsCAFile` and `tlsCertificateKeyFile` options, as well as the new `tlsCRLFile` option, and only read these files the first time it connects. Prior to this change, the files were read synchronously on `MongoClient` construction.

> [!NOTE]
> This has no effect on driver functionality when TLS configuration files are properly specified. However, if there are any issues with the TLS configuration files (invalid file name), the error is now thrown when the `MongoClient` is connected instead of at construction time.

```ts
const client = new MongoClient(CONNECTION_STRING, {
  tls: true,
  tlsCAFile: 'caFileName',
  tlsCertificateKeyFile: 'certKeyFile',
  tlsCRLFile: 'crlPemFile'
}); // Files are not read here, but file names are stored on the MongoClient

await client.connect(); // Files are now read and their contents stored
await client.close();

await client.connect(); // Since the file contents have already been cached, the files will not be read again.
```

Take a look at our [TLS documentation](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/drivers/node/current/fundamentals/connection/tls/) for more information on the `tlsCAFile`, `tlsCertificateKeyFile` and `tlsCRLFile` options.
```

Reviewer 3: Oh Github had a problem with double closing "```". Hope this is clear.

Author: Updated manually

> Take a look at our [TLS documentation](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/drivers/node/current/fundamentals/connection/tls/) for more information on the `tlsCAFile` and `tlsCertificateKeyFile` options.

Reviewer 4: Is it worth mentioning the `sslCRL` → `tlsCRLFile` renaming?

Reviewer: As well as the fact that the async file reading behaviour also applies to `tlsCRLFile`

Author: The release notes are relative to the latest V5 release, which contains the tlsCRLFile option already, so I did not include it in this section on async behavior (but did include it on the ssl deprecation removals section below). Happy to include it here for completeness if you don't think the fact that it's not new won't be confusing for someone upgrading from the latest V5.

Author: > ### Deprecated SSL options have been removed

This is the section that contains option renames.

Reviewer 4: Ah sorry, I didn’t realize tlsCRLFile had gone into a v5.x release! All good from my side then :+1:

- `BulkWriteResult.nInserted` -> `BulkWriteResult.insertedCount`
- `BulkWriteResult.nUpserted` -> `BulkWriteResult.upsertedCount`
- `BulkWriteResult.nMatched` -> `BulkWriteResult.matchedCount`
- `BulkWriteResult.nModified` -> `BulkWriteResult.modifiedCount`
- `BulkWriteResult.nRemoved` -> `BulkWriteResult.deletedCount`
- `BulkWriteResult.getUpsertedIds` -> `BulkWriteResult.upsertedIds` / `BulkWriteResult.getUpsertedIdAt(index: number)`
- `BulkWriteResult.getInsertedIds` -> `BulkWriteResult.insertedIds`

### Deprecated SSL options have been removed

The following options have been removed with their supported counterparts listed after the ->

- `sslCA` -> `tlsCAFile`
- `sslCRL` -> `tlsCRLFile`
- `sslCert` -> `tlsCertificateKeyFile`
- `sslKey` -> `tlsCertificateKeyFile`
- `sslPass` -> `tlsCertificateKeyFilePassword`
- `sslValidate` -> `tlsAllowInvalidCertificates`
- `tlsCertificateFile` -> `tlsCertificateKeyFile`

### The deprecated `keepAlive` and `keepAliveInitialDelay` options have been removed

TCP keep alive will always be on and now set to a value of 30000ms.

> ## 🪦 Removal of "dead" code

Author: ```suggestion
## 🗑️ Removal of "dead" code
```

> ## 🪦 Removal of "dead" code

Reviewer: Broken unicode character here

Reviewer 2: Windows 10 doesn't support this emoji. Maybe: 🗑️?

Author: But the gravestone is so perfect... Just kidding, open to alternate suggestions of course

Author: Check now?

Reviewer: There's also ⚰️ if we're taking "dead" code literally

Reviewer: Confirmed that the trash can emoji shows up on windows 👍🏿

The removed functionality listed in this section was either unused or not useful outside the driver internals.

> ### `MongoError` and its subclasses now have internal constructors

Reviewer: @W-A-James Update this heading

> ### `MongoError` and its subclasses now have internal constructors

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### `MongoError` and its subclasses are no longer covered under semantic versioning
```

Do we we think this still fits under dead code removal, or would a separate heading be more appropriate?

Author: I don't think this is the best title for this change. We are trying to indicate that something that the users should not have been using to begin with is now more clearly marked as such. Maybe something like "Constructors for `MongoError` and its subclasses now clearly indicate that they are meant for internal use only."

> `MongoError` and its subclasses are not meant to be constructed by users as they are thrown within the driver on specific error conditions to allow users to react to these conditions in ways which match their use cases. The constructors for these types are subject to change outside of major versions and their documentation has been updated to reflect this.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`MongoError` and its subclasses are not meant to be constructed by users as they are thrown within the driver on specific error conditions to allow users to react to these conditions in ways which match their use cases. The constructors for these types are now subject to change outside of major versions and their API documentation has been updated to reflect this.
```
